_articles/develop-on-site-stacker/setup-dev-environment.md, before:

---
title: Setup Dev Environment
category: Develop on Site Stacker
date: 2015-11-11 00:00:00
---

## React

<note>
For now, we'll use `.jsx` files and transform them one by one into
`.js` files, using a configured File Watcher in PhpStorm/WebStorm.
Then, every `.js` file will be included using the usual
`$this->Html->script()` helper in the necessary views (`.ctp` files).<br>
<br>
In the future we should investigate more complex methods like
[Webpack](https://webpack.github.io/).
</note>

To be able to write [JSX files](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html)
and transform them into plain JavaScript you'll need to install the following
prerequisites:

- [Node.js®](https://nodejs.org/en/) (follow the install instructions on the site)
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)

    ```sh
    npm install --global babel-cli
    ```

- [Babel React preset](https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-react/)
(global installation is not possible at the moment: [SO question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/33538403/error-couldnt-find-preset-react-when-installed-using-npm-install-global-ba))

    ```sh
    # from the Site Stacker root
    npm install babel-preset-react
    ```

### Configure React in PhpStorm/WebStorm

See [Using ReactJS in JavaScript and TypeScript](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/help/using-reactjs-in-javascript-and-typescript.html).

### PhpStorm/WebStorm File Watcher

In PhpStorm/WebStorm, configure a
[file watcher](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/help/file-watchers.html)
for your `.jsx` files as below:

![jsx-watcher](https://git.sitestacker.com/sitestacker/docs/uploads/464809a852443001fac624e84bb924af/image.png)

Make sure the **Program** points to the babel executable (on Windows 
this will be a `.exe`), replace the default **Arguments** field with the following:

```
--presets react --source-maps --out-file $FileNameWithoutExtension$.js $FilePath$
```

and in the **Environment variables** field add `NODE_ENV=production` to 
prevent babel from inlining the `__source` key in the generated JS files.

Now, you can create `.jsx` files that will be automatically transformed into
corresponding `.js` files in the same directory, on every save.

Commit message:

Add instructions about the es2015 babel preset

_articles/develop-on-site-stacker/setup-dev-environment.md, after:

---
title: Setup Dev Environment
category: Develop on Site Stacker
date: 2015-11-11 00:00:00
---

## React

<note>
For now, we'll use `.jsx` files and transform them one by one into
`.js` files, using a configured File Watcher in PhpStorm/WebStorm.
Then, every `.js` file will be included using the usual
`$this->Html->script()` helper in the necessary views (`.ctp` files).<br>
<br>
In the future we should investigate more complex methods like
[Webpack](https://webpack.github.io/).
</note>

To be able to write [JSX files](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html)
and transform them into plain JavaScript you'll need to install the following
prerequisites:

- [Node.js®](https://nodejs.org/en/) (follow the install instructions on the site)
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)

    ```sh
    npm install --global babel-cli
    ```

- [Babel React preset](https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-react/)
(global installation is not possible at the moment: [SO question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/33538403/error-couldnt-find-preset-react-when-installed-using-npm-install-global-ba))

    ```sh
    # from the Site Stacker root
    npm install babel-preset-react
    ```

- [Babel ES2015 preset](http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-es2015/) - [Learn ES2015](http://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)

    ```sh
    npm install babel-preset-es2015
    ```

### Configure React in PhpStorm/WebStorm

See [Using ReactJS in JavaScript and TypeScript](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/help/using-reactjs-in-javascript-and-typescript.html).

### PhpStorm/WebStorm File Watcher

In PhpStorm/WebStorm, configure a
[file watcher](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/help/file-watchers.html)
for your `.jsx` files as below:

![jsx-watcher](https://git.sitestacker.com/sitestacker/docs/uploads/464809a852443001fac624e84bb924af/image.png)

Make sure the **Program** points to the babel executable (on Windows
this will be a `.exe`), replace the default **Arguments** field with the following:

```
--presets react --source-maps --out-file $FileNameWithoutExtension$.js $FilePath$
```

and in the **Environment variables** field add `NODE_ENV=production` to
prevent babel from inlining the `__source` key in the generated JS files.

Now, you can create `.jsx` files that will be automatically transformed into
corresponding `.js` files in the same directory, on every save.
